Hello my friends and welcome to this new practical activity which will be you know an exciting one because
after implementing the UCB algorithm we're about to implement a new one and we will see if this new
one which is Thomson sampling will beat the UCB.
So I just want to say here that it's important that you check out first they used to be section you
know and the practical activity before doing this one because we will work on the same data set and
I will mention several times the U.S. visa that we can compare the two performances.
All right.
So make sure to check out first the section on upper confidence bound.
And if that's the case you're ready to go.
Okay.
And then let us make sure everyone here is on the same page.
I give you the link to this further machinery.
It is that coding data set right before this tutorial in the article.
So make sure to connect to it.
And now all good we can start.
So let's do this.
I can't wait to not only implement that new model Thompson sampling but also to see if we're going to
beat the UCB meaning if we're going to manage to catch that best ad in 500 rounds or less.
Okay.
So once again I give you the slide of the whole Thompson sampling algorithm.
So I really recommend that you open it you have the three steps which we will implement together in
the following tutorials.
And once again you will implement the steps on your own.
Before we do it together because that's the best way to practice and progress in machine learning.
So that's the slide.
And now we're going to go into the python folder in which you're going to find two files.
Well that exact same dataset of the 10000 rounds or you know the 10000 users in the rows and then 10
add in the columns.
And so I remind that successively we're going to show ads to each of these users.
And because this dataset is a simulation Well we know for each of them on which ad they're going to
click.
So for example this user is going to click only on this ad at number 8.
All right.
So that's the same dataset.
And now here is the implementation.
Thompson sampling in the IP y and B format.
So if you're ready let's open it in either Google collaboratively or Jupiter notebook and now we'll
show you what we're gonna do with it.
We won't have actually to re implement it from scratch because it is actually very similar to the UCB
implementation in the sense that we have the same data processing the same beginning of implementation
when implementing the model in the cell.
And the same code with the histogram in the end.
So we will actually only re implement part of this cell you know where we have indeed to implement those
three steps of Thompson sampling.
Okay.
So but first of all as usual this notebook is in read only mode.
That's because you all have access to it.
We can't modify it of course therefore we're going to create a copy here by clicking file and then save
a copy and drive.
And this will create a copy and that's where we will read implement part of this implementation where
we have something different than before with UCB.
All right.
So well speaking of this let's see where we have that difference.
Okay.
So first of all you see that we have the exact same structure as before you know we first imported libraries.
Then we import a data set then we implement the Thompson sampling algorithm.
And finally we visualize the results in the histogram.
And they're going to click on it because we will keep the surprise for the end.
But there you go.
That's the exact same structure.
Now not only this is the exact same structure but here this is the same code here as well.
This is the same code you know we import do set the exact same way and here.
Well here we import a different library which is the random library and that's because you know we'll
have to work with beta distributions you know when we take a random draw from the beta distributions.
Well we do this with this random library instead of the math library in the UCB implementations which
by the way I've kept here because you know at the end we will compare the two results of Thompson sampling
and UCB.
So there we go.
We import this library then we had the exact same parameters here.
That's the total number of rounds or you know the total number of users to whom we show successively
the ads.
Then this is a number of ads.
You know we have 10 ads among which we want to find the best one you know the one with the highest conversion
rate and about that I insist to remind that there is this important assumption in the data set that
each ad has a fixed conversion rate.
And the goal of our implementation is not the goal of what we're doing here you know reinforcement learning
with online learning.
Well the goal is to find that ad having the highest conversion rate.
All right.
So so far.
Exactly the same just that library changes.
You know we're using a different library than here is the same.
We make this variable to prepare you know the list of all the ads that will be selected over the round
and we initialize that list as an empty list.
So exactly the same.
Now this is where things change.
So actually we will delete everything from here.
You know we will delete all this cell you know or the bar of the cell from here and we will implement
all this because all the rest is the same and same for this histogram.
You know this is the exact same code as in the UCB.
Basically everything here is the exact same code as in the UCB except for this line where we import
different library and only what we are about to implement right now is specific to Thompson sampling.
So that's why I told you to really study first the practical activity of UCB.
If you did not do it already because indeed we're going to start from here instead of re implementing
everything we already did.
So there you go my friends.
Now we're ready to start.
So join me in the next story or to implement Thompson sampling.
And then in another tutorial after that we will of course visualize the final result and compare them
with UCB.
I can't wait to start see you in the next material.
And until then enjoy machine learning.